Add `Changes to osu!taiko star rating and performance points` news post (#7883)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2022-08-25-changes-to-osu-taiko-sr-and-pp.md

In this osu!taiko star rating rework, we have re-evaluated the stamina and colour components of difficulty, with the capacity for changes following community feedback. In addition, the performance points system has been adjusted to bring it closer in line with community expectations. During this time, we have been and will continue to work on other difficulty components (both small- and large-scale) in preparation for future releases.

Moving forward, osu!taiko star rating will be in a constant state of flux, particularly over the next year. This is generally desirable as we would want difficulty to accurately reflect the latest trends, but we understand and apologise if this may bring some unintended complications or frustrations, especially in the short term. We are fully aware that this rework is not a complete solution in its current state.
  
## Release schedule

- ☑ a bunch of checkboxes.
  

> ## Summary of changes

Reviewer: The changes were in skills, which affect difficulty calculation, which results in a different star rating, which results in a different amount of performance points awarded. Definitely a good idea to mention this explicitly, though.

This dictionary also has a "memory" of the patterns used. If a known pattern reappears later in the map, its difficulty will scale according to how long ago it last appeared in the map, which means repeated patterns close together are nerfed.

### PP rework

In recent years, osu!taiko has lagged behind the other three game modes in terms of raw performance point values (around 40% lower). In addition, the survey indicated that the way performance points are calculated needed to be re-evaluated. Performance points in osu!taiko are currently calculated by summing the "accuracy pp" and "difficulty pp" components of a score — the following changes should serve to increase their values and improve balance.

#### Global changes

The final step of performance points calculation involves applying a simple multiplier to the calculated value, which allows for balance changes between different types of scores. The following global multipliers have been adjusted:

- The global multiplier has been increased by **1.13x**, affecting all scores.
- The HD global multiplier has been further increased by **1.05x**, to increase the gap between EZHD- and HD-only scores

> - An EZ global multiplier of **0.975x** has been added, to increase the gap between EZ and NM scores

Reviewer: I would have gone with *The bonus multiplier for EZ/HD scores* or similar. Definitely a bit contradictory to call it both global and mod-specific next to each other.

> - An EZ global multiplier of **0.975x** has been added, to increase the gap between EZ and NM scores

Reviewer 2: also is the global multiplier intended to make sure the overall pp change is neutral? i heard this was the aim somewhere but just making sure i'm not misunderstanding

> - An EZ global multiplier of **0.975x** has been added, to increase the gap between EZ and NM scores

Reviewer 2: the HD and EZ values are out of date

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/36758269/187073277-9ea1fafe-7f22-45c7-8408-49ece6ab4bde.png)

> - An EZ global multiplier of **0.975x** has been added, to increase the gap between EZ and NM scores

Reviewer 2: and as i pointed out in [discord just now](https://discord.com/channels/188630481301012481/218677502141399041/1013421277983285288) there are two places where HD and EZ get multipliers, which may complicate matters a bit... which affects what? do we just multiply them together and present it that way?

https://github.com/ppy/osu/blob/master/osu.Game.Rulesets.Taiko/Difficulty/TaikoPerformanceCalculator.cs

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/36758269/187073853-bf36dbb7-73ed-451e-a092-4e3b51f0ece0.png)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/36758269/187073878-240a008b-c027-4af8-a7d4-03a3daed5118.png)

> - An EZ global multiplier of **0.975x** has been added, to increase the gap between EZ and NM scores

Reviewer 3: one is applied globally to the summative of accuracy and difficulty performance, with one applied solely to difficulty performance. in theory they could be merged, but that is of low priority for this upcoming deploy

In addition, an *effective miss count* has been introduced — this is calculated as `misses * 1000 / successful hits`, which increases the penalty of misses on maps below 1000 max combo and vice versa.

#### Difficulty

The following changes should result in impressive scores on harder beatmaps rewarding more pp.

- The miss penalty has been reduced by 1%. (This is part of an exponential term, so the effect is significantly more than this.)

> - The impact accuracy has on difficulty pp has been increased by 2x.

Reviewer 2: this is not a "2x" increase in impact

https://github.com/ppy/osu/compare/f8830c6850128456266c82de83273204f8b74ac0...master#diff-6debfbfde9d2308d19399526b0e127645ac5399d6fb5527c3ef5ef53c0d435c1

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/36758269/187051731-78fdbabb-68c8-4eaa-bdd5-86acdc83673a.png)

difficulty pp now decreases by the square of decreasing accuracy instead of linearly, which is a huge nerf

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/36758269/187051879-d6c33fe0-f4a4-4e72-a49b-9d7611522c1e.png)

- The NF multiplier has been removed.

#### Accuracy

The following changes should result in high-accuracy scores on harder beatmaps rewarding more pp.

- The impact of Great judgements (300s) on accuracy pp has been reduced significantly. This makes pp less dependent on the OD value of a map.
- Star rating now affects accuracy pp, which replaces most of the scaling from Great judgements. This nerfs the accuracy weighting on low-SR scores and buffs high-SR scores and thus significantly limits abuse of low-SR 3-mod/4-mod scores.
- All non-rate-changing mods have received a buff to accuracy pp (since DT gave too much pp in comparison to other mods).

> ## Next steps
> 
> The next stage to the rework involves rhythm and reading. If you would like to give feedback or help contribute, please join the [osu!dev Discord server](https://discord.gg/ppy) and direct your comments towards the `#difficulty-taiko` channel.
> 
> ---

Reviewer 2: does this document have a good name to refer by?

```suggestion
---

Future changes will involve rhythm and reading. For people eager to dive into the technicalities, WIP details are available [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z5GC4DMqOVzeIERMSK3qpQaqjq-sVnhbuoxAwy9qxDs/edit). If you would like to give feedback or help contribute, please join the [osu!dev Discord server](https://discord.gg/ppy) and direct your comments towards the `#difficulty-taiko` channel.
```
